---
title: Regulatory Context
sidebar:
  nav: about
---

Under the Petroleum Act 1998, it is a requirement to decommission
offshore facilities at the end of their producing life. Operators have
to submit detailed programmes for the decommissioning of offshore
installations and pipelines which are considered on a case-by-case basis
by the competent authority - the Offshore Petroleum Regulator for
Environment and Decommissioning (OPRED) at the Department for Energy
Security and Net Zero (DESNZ) - which is responsible for ensuring
compliance with the Petroleum Act.

The UK's international obligations on decommissioning are governed
principally by the 1992 Convention for the Protection of the Marine
Environment of the North East Atlantic (OSPAR Convention). In July 1998,
the OSPAR Commission adopted a binding Decision (OSPAR Decision 98/3) to
ban the disposal of offshore installations at sea. The Decommissioning
Programmes for the Dunlin Alpha fields and infrastructure have been
developed through extensive engineering studies, expert input,
scientific assessments and stakeholder engagement to be compliant with
both UK and OSPAR requirements.

Regulation of the health, safety and welfare of personnel who may be
affected by work activities offshore, meanwhile, is undertaken by the
Health & Safety Executive who apply the specific provisions of The
Offshore Installations (Offshore Safety Directive) (Safety Case etc.)
Regulations 2015, notably through the Safety Cases which have been
submitted for different stages in the life cycle of the Greater Dunlin
facilities.
