---
title: Dunlin Story
sidebar:
  nav: about
---

Discovered in 1973, the Greater Dunlin Area is located in UK Block
211/23a and 211/24 of the UKCS, some 500 km north-northeast of Aberdeen
within the East Shetland Basin, and 11 km from the boundary line with
Norway. The Dunlin Alpha platform was installed in 1977, comprising a
concrete gravity base structure (CGBS) which supported an integrated
production, drilling and accommodation topsides. The infrastructure
included Dunlin, Dunlin South West, Osprey and Merlin fields. Oil
production was exported from Dunlin Alpha via pipeline to the Cormorant
Alpha platform, and from there by pipeline to the Sullom Voe oil
terminal in the Shetland Islands.

During its lifetime, the Greater Dunlin Area supported thousands of jobs
and contributed billions of pounds in tax revenues, whilst supporting UK
energy creation. Moreover, in excess of 522 million barrels of oil were
produced from the Greater Dunlin Area. When the Dunlin Alpha platform
was installed in 1977 and production started the following year, it had
an expected design life of 25 years in common with other platforms of
its vintage.

A combination of challenges in 2015, including the requirement to invest
significant additional sums in ageing infrastructure and a sustained low
oil price, led to the determination that it was not economically viable
to continue production. Termination of Production from the Greater
Dunlin Area was announced in June 2015, following achievement of
Maximising Economic Recovery (MER) from the oilfields. Cessation of
Production was agreed with the Oil and Gas Authority in July 2015, with
COP confirmed to have occurred on 15 June 2015.
